
Spotify+ Project Plan Draft

Team RYW

Team Members: Wyatt Gockeler, Yuness Rachidi, Ryan Catania

Date: 10/10/2023






























Introduction
Scope and purpose of document (RC)
In one paragraph, describe what is contained in this document and the general purpose of a Project Plan.  In a separate paragraph, provide an overview of your application.

In this document, we have outlined our plans and thoughs of how we are going to improve the streaming service app, spotify. The team has included details about specific modifications or improvements, and our goals that we would like to achieve along the way. It is smart to have a project plan so that we do not deviate from the main goal that we are trying to achieve. It is also good to get the ideas laid out infront of us instead of kept in our brain so we can work them out deeper and as a group. 
Spotify is the most used music streaming platform available at the moment. Considering how loved the app is, our plan is to not “reinvent the wheel” as they say. As a team, we put out heads together to figure out our biggest problems with our app, and decided on ways that we could potentially fix them. We want to keep spotify as it is but make adjustments to the app that would make it more beneficial to all the users across the world. 


System Scope
Problem/Opportunity Description (YR)
In 1-2 paragraphs, describe what the goal is of your project.  What problem are you trying to solve or what opportunity are you trying to take advantage of?

Anticipated Business/Personal Benefits (WG)
By creating Spotify+, we hope to achieve the perfect third-party music-streaming platform for all music enthusiasts. Users will notice that the apps primary priority is to optimize their experience while listening to music. 

Revamps to the social aspect of the app will allow users to connect with their friends and share music like never before. Sharing new playlists you've made or songs you've discovered with your friends will be easier than ever, and this will, in turn, make discovering new music easier as well. Spotify+ will take advantage of push notifications to help users discover popular music that their friends are listening to and newly released music from their favorite artists. Spotify+ will also have a better reccommendation algorithm that is better at recommending songs of similar taste and style. On top of optimizing the app for sharing music across the internet, Spotify+ will also optimize music listening with your friends in social gatherings. This will be done by adding a karaoke feature to the app that allows users to sing along with their favorite songs with their friends.

System Capabilities (RC)
List of major functions of the system.  These are taken from the Project Proposal and expanded upon.

Similar Taste Sections: The home screen is filled with information that is available on other sections of the app, like the playlists section, which is available both on the home screen and in your library. The home screen needs a redesign that could possibly advertise more spotify made playlists, advertise music of the same genre, or advertise less well-known artists and songs
Spotify tends to create mixtapes and playlists for users that include songs that are not a part of their music taste.

Socialization of Spotify: The socialization of spotify would be very similar to all of the social media platforms out their like instagram or twitter. This socialization aspect can be done by added an activity feed, or ways for users to direct message each other. Still, we want it to be different from other social media. To do this, users would only be able to post about music related things. This means they can share albums, playlists, individual songs, artists and even break down the lyrics with eachother.

Push notifications: How could you keep up to date with your favorite artists? Notifications is a great way. The moment your favorit artist releases music you will be notified immediately so you can be the first to hear. This includes being notified for a song or an album. All the user has to do is press follow on their favorite artist.

Music Tags: Music tags are a great way to organize songs even if you dont want them in a playlist. It is much easier to add a tag to a song than to create an entire playlist for something specific. For example, you can do a vague tag like “rap”, or you can be very specific and tag a song as “gym”. Anything with the same tag will be grouped together.

Collaborated Queue: Everyone wants to be connected to the speakers, but only one person can. This is a common problem in the car, or maybe at a party. Collaborated queue is where your friends add to “YOUR” queue from their phone. Others don't have to be connected to the speakers, just one user.

Sound Editing Feature: The user is presented with volume mixers connected to each instrument detected in the song. This allows the user to amplify or silence instruments or voices so they can sing, or play along too. This is a good way to practice your instrument or do karaoke.


Staff Organization (WG)
How is your team organized; who is the team leader and how are you organized?

Yuness is our team leader. We stay organized by keeping in touch on Slack to ensure that we are all on the same page and have the same goal in mind for our project. We also make it a priority to update our Trello board so we can stay on top of our work and know what needs to get done every week.


Tracking and Control Mechanisms 
Describe how you plan to track changes to this and techniques that you will use to monitor the progress of the various tasks. For example, do you have regular meetings, how do you use groupware to keep the documents in-synch and current, etc?

We plan communicating on a weekly basis on exactly what needs to be done and by who. This will be done through the use of slack/ email, after class, or during the meetings at the start of class. To keep documents in sync, we use google's various tools, such as google docs. 










In 1-2 paragraphs, describe what the goal is of your project.  What problem are you trying to solve or what opportunity are you trying to take advantage of?
	In our reworked version of the Spotify app, the group's vision is to completely change how music is found, shared, and listened to. As it stands, Spotify’s creators made an app that ignores the social aspect that comes with millions of people tuning in everyday. In Spotify+, this social aspect will be taken advantage of. We plan on adding a separate tab in the app that allows users to share albums, songs, playlists, and music videos with their friends. In addition to socializing the app, the group intends on tailoring the app to each individual’s music taste. Instead of the app suggesting random playlists that have no relevance to the user, we’ll implement a “similar tastes'' tab. This tab will contain a “my songs playlist”, a playlist made by spotify containing the top songs a user listened to over a selected interval.
	A user's “quality of life” is vital in an app like Spotify. Spotify, currently, does not notify users of any new playlists or songs created that may be relevant to them. In adding a notifications system, users will have another layer of interaction in the social network, as the notifications keep the platform engaging. Additionally, Spotify currently chooses to group songs and playlists by genre. While this is a way for users to find the right song/playlist, a genre's vagueness renders many of the songs irrelevant to the user. By adding Music Tags, the user will have an easier time finding relevant music with a more specific search. A user Additionally, a common issue with bluetooth speakers is that only one user can connect at a time. We plan on solving this problem by implementing a collaborative queue. This allows one user to connect to the speaker, and everyone else can add to the connected users queue. Furthermore, an option to remove vocals/instruments from a track will be implemented, giving users the option to tune and listen to music however they please. 

